IEEE Software,SWSI-0070-0604
manuscript type: Special Issue on Persistent Software
Attributes-Submission Deadline 01 June 04 
"Preserving Versatility in Event-Based Middleware"

Dear Mr. Silva Filho,

The above-referenced manuscript, which you submitted to IEEE
Software, has completed the review process.  After carefully
examining the manuscript and reviews, the Editor in Chief has
decided that the manuscript is not suitable for publication in
the special issue of IEEE Software, and therefore we must reject
it.

The Guest Editors' and reviewers' comments are attached below.
Thank you very much for your submission to IEEE Software.

Sincerely,  

Hilda Hosillos
Magazine Assistant
IEEE Software
software@computer.org

Guest Editors' Comments:

Your paper appears to have set a record for engendering
diversity of opinion among reviewers, if nothing else. There
seems to be a consensus that you have some interesting and
worthwhile ideas in your paper, and the reviewers provide a
number of useful suggestions for bringing those ideas out. You
may wish to consider addressing the reviewers' comments and
submitting the revision to IEEE Software as a regular paper. In
making any revisions, keep in mind that IEEE Software is a
practitioner-oriented magazine and the focus of any revision
should reflect this.
  

Reviewer 1
				
				
Section I. Overview 


A. Reader Interest


1. How relevant is this manuscript to the readers of this
periodical? Please explain your rating in the Confidential
Comments section.

( ) Very Relevant

(X) Relevant

( ) Interesting - but not very relevant

( ) Irrelevant


B. Content 


1. Please summarize what you view as the key point(s) of the
manuscript and the importance of the content to the readers of
this periodical.

The authors define the concept of software "versatility" with
precision, argue effectively why versatility is a vital
component of distributed systems, and describe their own system,
YANCEES, for providing such versatility to distributed software
applications.


2. Is the manuscript technically sound? Please explain your
answer in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Yes

( ) Appears to be - but didn't check completely

( ) Partially

( ) No


3. What do you see as this manuscript's contribution to the
literature in this field? 

They make a persuasive argument for the need for middleware that
supports versatility in distributed applications, and define the
problem in some detail.


4. What do you see as the strongest aspect of this manuscript?

See above.


5. What do you see as the weakest aspect of this manuscript?

They introduce a lot of ideas in trying to explain their goals,
so at times I thought I was reading a summary article instead of
a description of a result. They pull it back together by the end
of the paper, though, with a detailed description of their
system and how it addresses the goals that they described
earlier in the paper.

C. Presentation


1. Are the title, abstract, and keywords appropriate? Please
elaborate in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Yes

( ) No


2. Manuscript does not contain title, abstract, and/or
keywords.

( ) Yes

(X) No


3. Does the manuscript contain sufficient and appropriate
references? Please elaborate in the Confidential Comments
section.

(X) References are sufficient and appropriate

( ) Important references are missing; more references are
needed

( ) Number of references are excessive


4. Does the introduction state the objectives of the manuscript
in terms that encourage the reader to read on? Please explain
your answer in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Yes

( ) Could be improved

( ) No


5. How would you rate the organization of the manuscript? Is it
focused? Is the length appropriate for the topic? Please
elaborate in the Confidential Comments section. 

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


6. Is the manuscript focused? Please elaborate in the
Confidential Comments section.

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


7. Is the length of the manuscript appropriate for the topic?
Please elaborate in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


8. Please rate and comment on the readability of this manuscript
in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Easy to read

( ) Readable - but requires some effort to understand

( ) Difficult to read and understand

( ) Unreadable


Section II. Summary and Recommendation


A. Evaluation 

Please rate the manuscript. Explain your choice in the
Confidential Comments section.

( ) Award Quality

( ) Excellent

(X) Good

( ) Fair

( ) Poor


B. Recommendation 

Please make your recommendation and explain your decision in the
Detailed Comments section.

(X) Accept with no changes

( ) Accept if certain minor revisions are made

( ) Author should prepare a major revision

( ) Reject


Section III. Detailed Comments

A. Public Comments (these will be made available to the author)
 I.A.1 (relevancy) - 

I.B.2 (soundness) - 

I.C.1 (title, abstract, & keywords) - I think the title is clear
and to the point, but I have to admit that after reading that
title I kept looking for an extensive discussion of
"event-based" in the paper and really never saw it. The authors
seem to range quite a bit more broadly than just event-based
middleware, focusing on the entire problem of creating versatile
middleware, which include event-based and more.

I.C.2 (missing items) - Keywords are missing.

I.C.3 (references) - 

I.C.4 (introduction) - 

I.C.5 (organization) - 

I.C.6 (focus) - 

I.C.7 (length) - 

I.C.8 (readability) - 

II.A (overall rating) - 

II.B (recommendation) - Accept with no change. My reflex was to
say "minor changes," but to be honest I didn't come up with much
that needed changing. My main concern is that this is clearly an
more research-oriented paper than the majority of IEEE Software
papers, but it presents its research in a sufficiently readable
and jargon-free fashion that I think it will work out fine.
Reviewer 2
				
				
Section I. Overview 


A. Reader Interest


1. How relevant is this manuscript to the readers of this
periodical? Please explain your rating in the Confidential
Comments section.

( ) Very Relevant

(X) Relevant

( ) Interesting - but not very relevant

( ) Irrelevant


B. Content 


1. Please summarize what you view as the key point(s) of the
manuscript and the importance of the content to the readers of
this periodical.

The key point of the manuscript is that building PSAs into
networked systems can be simplified if proper design decisions
have been made in advance. The reader is sensitized to the
correlation of design decisions and the building of PSAs.



2. Is the manuscript technically sound? Please explain your
answer in the Confidential Comments section.

( ) Yes

(X) Appears to be - but didn't check completely

( ) Partially

( ) No


3. What do you see as this manuscript's contribution to the
literature in this field? 

The manuscript's contribution to the literature is limited as
the authors explain what problems they have solved only in a
very abstract way. Moreover, many important and interesting
details about how the system is designed and implemented are
missing.


4. What do you see as the strongest aspect of this manuscript?

The strongest aspect of the paper is the classification of
common system design approaches.


5. What do you see as the weakest aspect of this manuscript?

The weakest aspect of the manuscript is that the authors do not
state precisely how they have designed and built PSAs in their
YANCEES system.

C. Presentation


1. Are the title, abstract, and keywords appropriate? Please
elaborate in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Yes

( ) No


2. Manuscript does not contain title, abstract, and/or
keywords.

(X) Yes

( ) No


3. Does the manuscript contain sufficient and appropriate
references? Please elaborate in the Confidential Comments
section.

(X) References are sufficient and appropriate

( ) Important references are missing; more references are
needed

( ) Number of references are excessive


4. Does the introduction state the objectives of the manuscript
in terms that encourage the reader to read on? Please explain
your answer in the Confidential Comments section.

( ) Yes

(X) Could be improved

( ) No


5. How would you rate the organization of the manuscript? Is it
focused? Is the length appropriate for the topic? Please
elaborate in the Confidential Comments section. 

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


6. Is the manuscript focused? Please elaborate in the
Confidential Comments section.

( ) Satisfactory

(X) Could be improved

( ) Poor


7. Is the length of the manuscript appropriate for the topic?
Please elaborate in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


8. Please rate and comment on the readability of this manuscript
in the Confidential Comments section.

( ) Easy to read

( ) Readable - but requires some effort to understand

(X) Difficult to read and understand

( ) Unreadable


Section II. Summary and Recommendation


A. Evaluation 

Please rate the manuscript. Explain your choice in the
Confidential Comments section.

( ) Award Quality

( ) Excellent

( ) Good

(X) Fair

( ) Poor


B. Recommendation 

Please make your recommendation and explain your decision in the
Detailed Comments section.

( ) Accept with no changes

( ) Accept if certain minor revisions are made

(X) Author should prepare a major revision

( ) Reject


Section III. Detailed Comments

A. Public Comments (these will be made available to the author)
 The authors describe their lessons learned in designing a
versatile message-oriented middleware system. They survey
existing solutions and state that there is no really versatile
solution meeting their requirements. After clarifying their
definition of versatility they briefly describe classic and
advanced approaches to versatility. Then, these approaches are
evaluated as well as associated to existing middleware
solutions. At last, the authors cite their YANCEES system as
case study of a versatile software system and summarize their
experiences.

A general problem of the manuscript is that it is hard to read.
It lacks examples, figures and explanations that may help an
unaware reader to understand it. For example, the authors should
support the reader right at the beginning by explaining in more
detail what message-oriented middleware is and what it is used
for. Instead of that, the aim of MOM systems is only described
in a somehow abstract way. Especially regarding the motivation
section concrete real-life examples would help to encourage the
reader to learn why versatility plays such a big role in MOM
systems. Despite these problems the first part of the manuscript
is quite well done and gives an interesting overview of general
design approaches that build a fundament for many aspects of
versatility and PSAs, respectively.

The second part of the manuscript, describing the YANCEES
system, contains too little concrete information to impart
knowledge how the authors have built PSAs. Especially the
separation of the section generally describing design steps from
the section describing the design steps of the YANCEES system
seems to be inappropriate. Furthermore, instead of describing
their framework in detail the authors only reference Figure 1.
Unfortunately, the content of Figure 1 is not explained anywhere
-- this is a major problem as Figure 1 is not easy to
understand.

The most interesting aspect of the YANCEES design is focused in
Table 1 describing how versatility requirements are addressed in
YANCEES. Here again, a more detailed description containing
examples would help to explain which versatility problems exist
and in how far they are addressed. At last, the authors should
include performance evaluations instead of referencing their
technical report. This is also a missing aspect that would make
the manuscript a more interesting read.

Reviewer 3
				
				
Section I. Overview 


A. Reader Interest


1. How relevant is this manuscript to the readers of this
periodical? Please explain your rating in the Confidential
Comments section.

( ) Very Relevant

(X) Relevant

( ) Interesting - but not very relevant

( ) Irrelevant


B. Content 


1. Please summarize what you view as the key point(s) of the
manuscript and the importance of the content to the readers of
this periodical.

The paper provides a very interesting and technically sound
overview of current technologies and approaches that can be used
to implement "versatile" middleware which is easy to adapt,
extend and configure. Furthermore, as a proof of concept, the
basics of a notification service prototype named "YANCEES"
realizing the ideas described in the paper are presented. 


2. Is the manuscript technically sound? Please explain your
answer in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Yes

( ) Appears to be - but didn't check completely

( ) Partially

( ) No


3. What do you see as this manuscript's contribution to the
literature in this field? 

The paper elaborates on aspects of versatility, like
extensibility, functional configurability, distribution
configurability, reuse, and usability, needed today in
event-based middleware implementations and points out approaches
and technologies that can be used to achieve these software
engineering goals. 


4. What do you see as the strongest aspect of this manuscript?

It provides a nice and informative overview and analysis of
potential ways of preserving versatility in event-based
middleware.


5. What do you see as the weakest aspect of this manuscript?

The paper stays very much at the surface of the numerous
technologies and approaches mentioned.

C. Presentation


1. Are the title, abstract, and keywords appropriate? Please
elaborate in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Yes

( ) No


2. Manuscript does not contain title, abstract, and/or
keywords.

( ) Yes

(X) No


3. Does the manuscript contain sufficient and appropriate
references? Please elaborate in the Confidential Comments
section.

(X) References are sufficient and appropriate

( ) Important references are missing; more references are
needed

( ) Number of references are excessive


4. Does the introduction state the objectives of the manuscript
in terms that encourage the reader to read on? Please explain
your answer in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Yes

( ) Could be improved

( ) No


5. How would you rate the organization of the manuscript? Is it
focused? Is the length appropriate for the topic? Please
elaborate in the Confidential Comments section. 

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


6. Is the manuscript focused? Please elaborate in the
Confidential Comments section.

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


7. Is the length of the manuscript appropriate for the topic?
Please elaborate in the Confidential Comments section.

( ) Satisfactory

(X) Could be improved

( ) Poor


8. Please rate and comment on the readability of this manuscript
in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Easy to read

( ) Readable - but requires some effort to understand

( ) Difficult to read and understand

( ) Unreadable


Section II. Summary and Recommendation


A. Evaluation 

Please rate the manuscript. Explain your choice in the
Confidential Comments section.

( ) Award Quality

(X) Excellent

( ) Good

( ) Fair

( ) Poor


B. Recommendation 

Please make your recommendation and explain your decision in the
Detailed Comments section.

( ) Accept with no changes

(X) Accept if certain minor revisions are made

( ) Author should prepare a major revision

( ) Reject


Section III. Detailed Comments

A. Public Comments (these will be made available to the author)
 The paper provides a very interesting and technically sound
overview of current technologies and approaches that can be used
to implement "versatile" middleware which is easy to adapt,
extend and configure. Furthermore, as a proof of concept, the
basics of a notification service prototype named "YANCEES"
realizing the ideas described in the paper are presented. 

The paper is technically sound and condenses much information on
an easy-to-read level of abstraction. 

The paper elaborates on aspects of versatility, like
extensibility, functional configurability, distribution
configurability, reuse, and usability, needed today in
event-based middleware implementations and points out approaches
and technologies that can be used to achieve these software
engineering goals.

It provides a nice and informative overview and analysis of
potential ways of preserving versatility in event-based
middleware. However, the paper stays very much at the surface of
the numerous technologies and approaches mentioned. It might be
worth-while considering an extenion of the paper to provide more
substance.

Keywords are missing. There are a few grammatical and spelling
errors.
Reviewer 4
				
				
Section I. Overview 


A. Reader Interest


1. How relevant is this manuscript to the readers of this
periodical? Please explain your rating in the Confidential
Comments section.

( ) Very Relevant

(X) Relevant

( ) Interesting - but not very relevant

( ) Irrelevant


B. Content 


1. Please summarize what you view as the key point(s) of the
manuscript and the importance of the content to the readers of
this periodical.

Middleware is an important element in distributed systems. This
manuscripts provides a framework for describing the versatility
of a middleware design, presents a survey of current middleware
approaches and describes a middleware under development by the
authors.


2. Is the manuscript technically sound? Please explain your
answer in the Confidential Comments section.

( ) Yes

(X) Appears to be - but didn't check completely

( ) Partially

( ) No


3. What do you see as this manuscript's contribution to the
literature in this field? 

A framework for discussing the versatility of middleware and a
survey of current middleware approaches.


4. What do you see as the strongest aspect of this manuscript?

The framework for discussing versatility seems very useful. The
survey of strengths and weaknesses of current industry/academic
standard middleware approaches is also useful.


5. What do you see as the weakest aspect of this manuscript?

The manuscript is not focused. There is a great deal of
information provided but is not cohesive. See comments below.

C. Presentation


1. Are the title, abstract, and keywords appropriate? Please
elaborate in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Yes

( ) No


2. Manuscript does not contain title, abstract, and/or
keywords.

(X) Yes

( ) No


3. Does the manuscript contain sufficient and appropriate
references? Please elaborate in the Confidential Comments
section.

(X) References are sufficient and appropriate

( ) Important references are missing; more references are
needed

( ) Number of references are excessive


4. Does the introduction state the objectives of the manuscript
in terms that encourage the reader to read on? Please explain
your answer in the Confidential Comments section.

( ) Yes

(X) Could be improved

( ) No


5. How would you rate the organization of the manuscript? Is it
focused? Is the length appropriate for the topic? Please
elaborate in the Confidential Comments section. 

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


6. Is the manuscript focused? Please elaborate in the
Confidential Comments section.

( ) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

(X) Poor


7. Is the length of the manuscript appropriate for the topic?
Please elaborate in the Confidential Comments section.

(X) Satisfactory

( ) Could be improved

( ) Poor


8. Please rate and comment on the readability of this manuscript
in the Confidential Comments section.

( ) Easy to read

(X) Readable - but requires some effort to understand

( ) Difficult to read and understand

( ) Unreadable


Section II. Summary and Recommendation


A. Evaluation 

Please rate the manuscript. Explain your choice in the
Confidential Comments section.

( ) Award Quality

( ) Excellent

( ) Good

(X) Fair

( ) Poor


B. Recommendation 

Please make your recommendation and explain your decision in the
Detailed Comments section.

( ) Accept with no changes

( ) Accept if certain minor revisions are made

( ) Author should prepare a major revision

(X) Reject


Section III. Detailed Comments

A. Public Comments (these will be made available to the author)
 While this reviewer found the topic interesting, the manuscript
is not well focused and difficult to follow. The goal of the
discussion is not clear from the start.

The manuscript seems to be heading in the following direction: 

* Describe a framework for evaluating versatility of middlware.

* Describe current approaches for middleware within the context
of the framework. Identify strenghts and weaknesses of each
approach.

* Describe YANCEES.


Currently, the manuscript does a reasonable job at describing
the versatility framework. However, after digesting that, the
reader is introduced to a collection of categories that capture
various approaches to middleware. For the most part, the
categories are discussed with no reference of the framework. 

It would be more effective, and relevant, to discuss the
categories with in the context of the framework.

Lastly, with respect to YANCEES, the purpose of "Yet Another"
middleware approach should be to address issues of versatility
identified in other approaches and explain how YANCEES improves
upon them. If the improvement is not identifiable, why should we
need it?

That said, I think there is something that can be salvaged from
the manuscript. I would encourage the authors to completely
redesign their discussion and consider submitting the new
manuscript for consideration. 



Some specific comments about the manuscript:

* There are some obvious middleware choices (e.g., JavaBeans,
COM/DCOM, .Net, MPI, NDDS, etc.) that have been left out of the
survey. You should consider doing a more extensive survey of
current approaches. You do not necessarily have to detail each
middleware but it would be useful to place the various
middleware products into the categories. 

* While I agree that the approaches listed under "Advanced
Approaches to Versatility" are useful, the categories under
"Architectural Approaches Beyond Middleware" does not add much
to the discussion.

* You should consider investigating some discussion on framework
tools (e.g., IBM Rational Rose Real-Time) that provide
location-independent communication using an extensible
proprietary approach. Such tools may fall into the "Advanced
Approaches to Versatility" categories. They are not truly MDA.
Several such tools provide interesting communication schemes.





  
